Good afternoon, sir.
Good afternoon, sir. Yeah, good afternoon everyone.
Good afternoon. Hello, sir. Yeah. Hello.
Good afternoon, sir.
Yeah, good afternoon. So far. 20 people have joined.
We just finished one session.
Probably they'll be coming, sir.
Okay, so every day, how many session
on Saturday specifically have four uh,
sessions and one in the evening?
Uh, after seven 40.
Oh, morning nine to, uh, night nine 15
Grading. Morning, nine
Sat. Saturday is
marathon. Sir, we have gap two,
three hours gap in the evening.
We have after four o'clock, but it is a marathon rest.
Monday and Wednesday we have
Okay, Week days we have only one class almost
follow, and only on Monday we have two
classes. Otherwise, uh,
My class is on witness day one class, correct
On we day and we day.
Again, we have literature and, uh, research
and, uh, the second half after your class.
Okay, so today
class I will go slow for policy.
Yes, sir. That would sir.
'cause this course is difficult.
Uh, but this is very vital codes actually
for those who are into AI domain.
Yes, sir. Truly agree, sir.
And this is a real, real time machine learning.
Yes, sir. AI has
become AI because of reinforcement learning.
I think both the deep learning as well
as this reinforc learning is very critical for, uh,
going forward also.
Mm.
Third semester also we had sir advanced response learning.
I don't think, yes, no.
It is called deep reinforcement learning.
The, the advanced name is not there.
Yes. Uh, next version.
Uh, but I don't think it'll be floated for you.
Okay. Um,
because it requires a hands-on direct classroom.
It's easy for me to do in the remote class. Not easy.
Yes.
Uh, should I start now then? How many people have joined?
29, sir, we can wait few minutes more, sir. Ah, till 29,
So totally, I think 51 or 52 student.
I think 59. They joined previous class. 59. Okay.
So I have sent you the PDF chapter wise from the book
that I'm teaching in the classroom.
So if you get time, uh, just spend something like one hour
before the na, I mean Friday, around Friday,
you spend one hour time for Saturday class.
Just read the PDF
because I teach from the PDF,
you can easily correlate whatever I'm teaching.
Yeah, sure. That grouping. Mm.
Uh, actually I have a printout of this book.
You can see this. I have a printout of this book.
So I read the book
probably before I teach.
So right now, I'm, uh, I have completed chapter two.
Uh, I will show you from the
whatever I have completed, you just have a glimpse,
share the screen.
Okay. So whatever I have completed is explaining the three
problems of this bandit slippery walk.
In this PDF itself, there are, uh,
this transition probability table,
and then there python environment file
that is called a dictionary.
This is a frozen lake.
Today, I'll be doing the same thing with, uh,
policy evaluation for frozen lake problem
and for, uh, bandaid, slippery for both.
The problem, the dictionary file
for the python is available here.
I will show you. This is a
transition provided table.
The dictionary file is given here. Yeah.
So here, look at I speak Python.
This part, this is the bandit. This is from last class.
I have not started anything for two today's content
bandit walk problem.
This is the environmental, uh, the environment description.
You have only three state, zero, one,
and two for each and every state.
You have to take a action that is given inside this libres.
So it is a dictionary, nested dictionary.
So you have to take one action either left or right.
So zero stands for left, one stands for right
for each and every action.
You are going to get, uh,
your, this is I think
already, uh, uh, this is the probability.
Yeah. So this is the probability of
getting into next state.
The next state is given here. That is the next index.
Then it is the reward. Okay?
Then it is whether the next state is
a terminal state or not.
Okay? So he, this is the description it is given here
in this book itself.
And if you import gymnasium, gymnasium, library from Python,
just you type this import gym
and then you get this gym dot make,
you will get this environment file.
You don't have to do any writing by your,
you don't have to do any hard coding.
This, this, this part.
From here to here, this part, you don't have
to do any hard coding.
Okay? If you just call these two functions, this two line,
you'll be getting the same thing here, okay?
And for the bandit slippery walk,
your transition probability this, it'll become 0.8
and 0.2
because it is the float slippery
from the state of one.
If you take from the state of one,
if you take the action Jira that is left hand side action,
the next state will be zero or one next will be zero or two.
Okay? Zero or two. The next will be zero or two.
So zero will be 0.8 probability,
and two, state number two will be 0.2 probability.
Okay? What is the reward for going to that state?
That is given here in the third index? This is the reward.
If you go to the state, number two, you get a reward of one,
and the last index stands
for whether the state in which you are getting into
as the next state, whether it is a terminal state or not.
Mm-hmm. Until now.
I had, this is for the frozen leg problem.
Okay? So today's class, I'm going to start for
what is called a policy.
Till now, we have described only the environment. Okay?
State action, the transition probability, the reward
for taking one step, and then you have gamma.
That is called discount factor for each
and every action that you take, H is the horizon.
Horizon means total.
How many, uh, trial, uh, total, how many
episode you are going to take.
So your entire trial, let's say
there's an important thing that I'll tell you what is called
episode and a trajectory.
Let me go and show you the,
let's say you start from the state.
Number zero in the frozen lake environment problem,
you have four cross, four grid, okay?
So one episode means you started from any state
specifically, we start from state number zero,
but theoretically you can start from any state
which are non terminal state, okay?
You start from state number zero.
You, you do one episode.
That means you take one step transition,
get into next state, then you take one step transition, get
to next step like that.
How many of our transition you want to make you do it,
but you cannot try forever.
So there is going to be upper limit of total number of
transition, that total number of step you are taking.
Okay? So that is a upper limit.
That limit is called uh, uh,
basically the naming I forgot.
So that is upper limit of total how many steps you can take
for a single episode.
Once you have completed one episode, your trial is over.
You collect your reward from the last
state wherever you have got into,
because the, all the intermediate state,
they will not be having any value.
Only when you get into the goal state,
your goal state is 15, you're going to get a reward of one.
If you get into any one of the state, which are marked
as this black,
they're basically whole hole means there's a pit hole.
If you land into this pit hole state like 5, 7, 11,
and 12, your reward is going to be zero.
And then you start your, you restart your game again.
So whenever you are reaching any terminal state, your game,
your one single episode is over, you restart your game.
So that is what is called one episode, okay?
Like that you are allowed to take a few fixed number
of episode, like around a hundred or 200 like that.
And suppose you are not getting your
step to step transition.
Whatever you're making, you are not getting into any
terminal state in that case.
Also, there is a upper limit of
how many trials you can make in a single episode.
That upper limit value is user configurable. Okay?
Okay, so now let us start for today's content, I hope so,
that upper limit is H, right?
No, no, no. H is the, uh, H is the
total how many episode you are allowed
to take and is called horizon.
And inside the episode, how many steps you are going
to take, that is some other variable which, uh, uh,
I forgot the exact naming.
Okay? So that is, that is going to define
how many steps you're allowed
to take within a single episode.
For every step you take, your
reward is getting diminishing by a gamma factor.
So this is the formula for calculation your,
uh, calculation of your expected sum of discounted reward.
Look at this one, this formula, this is,
you don't have any gamma factor here.
That means every time you take a new step, the reward
that you are getting for a new state is getting AC
accumulated as an as it is.
But if you take a discounted sum, that means
you are taking a step counting from that
time called small T, this small T, okay?
This gt, this gt, this T is a small T.
That is a time from when you have starting your transition
at t plus one, you'll be getting into the state
of st plus one at T plus two.
Again, state of ST plus two, okay?
For every new state that you're taking, your
reward is getting multiplied by gamma.
Gamma value is less than one. Okay?
So this is, you are called sum of discounted reward.
Then what is called expected sum of discounted reward.
Look at here, there is no expectation symbol here.
This is called sum of discounted reward, okay?
The expectation symbol will be coming when you, when you are
taking a action, which is probabilistic action.
Under that situation, your your trajectory.
Trajectory means you are right now at a state of st.
Then you're getting into state of st plus one.
St plus one can be any one of the state which is located
just one step after you in the direction of left,
right up and down.
Okay? So getting into a particular state at st um, at time,
t plus one is a probability under probabilistic uh, action.
This submission will not be written as a straight sum.
It'll be written as a expected
value of this quantity.
Okay? So that is what is called expected
sum of discounted reward.
Today's discussion is on that only.
Okay,
now, no, totally.
How many people have joined till now?
Yeah. Okay,
so let me start today's then.
So today is basically,
so this book is written by someone who is working in
aerodynamics company, okay?
Probably Boeing. So each
and every chapter they have given one quotation.
In preparing for the battle, I have always found
that plans are useless, but planning are indispensable.
Let me increase the font.
This is a famous quotation by Eisenhower who was,
was not only the five star Army general,
he was also 34 president of United States of America.
Okay? Look at the statement.
In the preparation of battle, I found
that plants are useless.
That means plants are turning out to be fruitless,
but planning is indispensable.
You cannot do, you cannot get into battle without planning,
although you know that your plan may fail, okay?
So that is what is called reinforcement learning is
sequential decision making under uncertainty.
So we have two methods
to be discussed in the next four lectures, okay?
It is a unit one that is value and policy iteration.
So today our discussion is ongoing to be policy iteration.
What is it? Basically,
this is what is our bandit slippery walk problem.
We have total seven state 0, 2, 6.
In this h
and g, they are terminal state, okay?
You have non terminal state starting from 1, 2, 5.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, they're non terminal state.
You are at the state of cell number three current.
So you are starting a game from cell number three,
your movement described as below that you want
to take a, your desire is
to move on the left hand side, okay?
With 50% chance you'll be really getting into the state,
which is on the left hand side of you.
With 33% chance you'll be remaining back to the same cell
with 16% chance.
You'll be going to the exactly opposite direction.
That is 180 degree angle direction, okay?
Since it is a linear movement, we don't have any
multiple row, it has only single row.
So it is considering 180 degree movement if you fall in the
sleep, uh, slippery floor, okay, fine.
So here it is described,
your current state is state number three,
50% action is success.
So here it is showing you want
to move on the right hand side direction from the sale.
Number four, from the sale number four, you want
to move on the right hand side direction.
50% chance is there that you'll get into state number five,
33% chance 33.33 chance you'll be remaining back
to the same cell, 16.6% chance you'll be sleeping
to the previous cell.
So under this environment, we want to find what is the
value for being
or for living in a particular state,
starting from 1, 2, 3, 4, and five.
This is called value function. Okay?
So we want to estimate what is the value
of being in the state of one or two
or three or four or five.
Look at agents starts in ace, H is a whole, G is a goal,
and you get a reward, a positive one, only when you leads
to this state of G that is cell number six.
Intermediate state has no reward, okay?
So what is the return that you're going to get?
Okay? So there is one important, uh, uh, terminology
that I should tell you that is called what is the difference
between reward
and value, even in your, in our real life.
This is applicable. The reward means the immediate, uh,
the uh, the immediate effect that you are receiving
for taking a single transition.
It's called reward and value means what is the
long term return that you are getting out
of taking sequential decision right from time of T.
So you're supposed to take,
supposed you are starting from the state
number, uh, not state number.
You are starting from, from the time of T small T
GT stands for the return.
If you start from your time called small T, you are going
to be taking so many sequential decision.
You are changing state after state at capital T time,
you are going to end your trial.
Okay? So how many transition you have made,
basically capital T minus of small t,
that many transition you have made.
So only when you reach to the last date, you are going
to calculate the total sum of reward
each stepwise, okay?
So that is called value.
If you take a deterministic action,
then this is the single submission that uh,
that is a straight submission you need to do,
if you take a probabilistic action, you have
to multiply this reward with the probability
of taking a particular action at the time of state T, okay?
And from here to T plus two, you have to multiply that
with a probability of taking
action at the time of T plus one.
So that probably multiplex,
and if you do, you will get a expected sum
of discounted reward.
Probably it is given here, no, it is not given.
That will be given here.
It is not written. It'll be written no problem.
The given, yeah, this is one look at here.
This is the expectation symbol here.
The expectation basically coming out
of your probabilistic action, right?
Look at here, this one, this one, okay?
If you don't have probabilistic action,
if you have a deterministic action, that means at, uh,
currently I'm staying in a state of T plus one,
I will take only one action, okay?
It is not out of four possible action. I will choose one.
So you are going to take only one action.
In that case, this expectation symbol will not be coming up,
Okay?
So I will show you today's calculation by hand.
It'll take some time.
Then we'll start from here.
So this is your environment.
Let's say we want to calculate the value for, uh,
taking this action.
This is a deterministic action, okay?
Look at here it is deterministic action.
So let's say I want to calculate the value
for being in a state of five.
When I'm taking the action is right hand side, okay?
So how do I calculate?
Let me write them into stylus.
Okay? So our job here is
to calculate the value force being in the state of five.
So you have
so many cells, this is your cell number zero,
which is the whole state,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
And then this six is a goal state, okay?
So we want to calculate the value for,
I mean value at the state of five.
This is V of five, okay? We want to calculate this.
So what is our action? The action as I, as it is shown here,
it is, all right?
Right hand side movement,
right hand side,
So policy means, as I told you, policy is basically I
probability of choosing action.
A given that you are in the state of ace.
So here your policy is basically the state
for all these right hand side movement under this situation,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Because this five states sir, non-oral state, okay?
So under this policy,
what is the value that you have to compute?
You can change the policy, but the formula remains the same.
The formula here is basically, uh,
I am taking action on the right hand side.
So what is my next state going to be?
To look at actual the formula is
a given a this A,
this submission is over all possible action.
Okay? At a given state of ace, your ace is basically five.
Now, okay, so basically your
ace is now five, okay?
At a given state of A, you can choose any one of the action.
Right now it is a deterministic action.
So this is, there is no probability all
or one here multiplied by probability of
a dash given a comma, a
multiplied by reward.
For state of currently you're in state of ace,
you are taking action A, you are getting into the new state
of ace, d plus gamma multiplied
by value available.
Add the new state of ACE D. Okay? So this is the formula.
Second bracket ends second bracket.
This first bracket is ending here.
So there's no second bracket.
So this plus gamma multiplied by value
and the next state then bracket is closing.
This bracket is closing. That's it. Okay?
This is the formula now for this particular environment,
and this is the deterministic action,
your value will be coming out to be like this.
So this will turn out to value of one,
because it is a deterministic case.
We don't have any at a given state of A,
we don't have multiple action from
which you're going to choose.
You have only one action that is right hand
side movement, okay?
But this will be one multiplied by some of this thing.
So what is the next state going to be to be,
you are calculating value for being in the state of five.
Okay? You are taking a right hand side movement. Six.
What are the next? It can be, it can be
six given that you action is right, okay?
Your action is right. You are in the current state of five.
This A stands for five. Okay?
Multiplied by reward
for moving from, um, what is it?
A? A is five. Your action is right hand side.
Your next state is this plus gamma multiplied
by value available at the state of six.
Okay? This completed.
Now this submission, this submission is over is desk.
The next state can be any three.
If you move from here, if you want to move from five,
you can be landing at this state with the probability
of 0.5.
You can be remaining here back in the same state.
You can be going back by one state. That is four. Okay?
So here this one is basically your S dash
is three, possibility six, five,
and four.
Okay? So here I'm not writing six directly.
Let me write this.
Let me write. This is desk.
This summation is happening over is desk. Okay?
This is the submission.
So now you can break this submission.
That is probability. Here it is going to be s ds.
Here is s ds, here is SD.
So probability of moving into six state
for this, I mean a comm,
actually it'll be S here.
Action will come later.
Given you are in the state of A, you're taking action.
A, the order is important.
Actually here it'll be S.
S,
it'll be a, a, a, that's it.
S comma a, S, comm A.
Okay, so currently we're in the state of five.
You are taking a right hand side movement,
which is R, okay?
Reward for this is one reward
because from five we are getting to whole state, one plus
the value for the state of sixes multiplied by zero
because initialization,
all the state will receive zero value.
Okay? This plus for the next state, next state is five.
What is the probability of remaining back in the same state?
That is again, probability.
Your next state is five.
Given that you are into the state of five,
you are taking a right hand side movement.
The reward for remaining the same state, I mean it is zero
because all are non aminal state.
So gamma multiplied by zero, okay?
This plus probability of moving into the state of four.
So four, four is the next state is dash, this four under
current state, you are five.
You are taking right hand side movement left.
What is the reward? Reward is left.
Left side movement. No
Left side, No.
I will tell you why
you have asked a good question.
See, this is a slippery environment.
You, your desired action is right hand side, okay?
Under every desired action, 0.5 is a priority
to get success.
0.33 priorities
to remaining the same 0.16 probability
going back by one state.
So your desired action was right.
Your action is not changing. Your action here is right?
Okay, so your action is right under right action,
right side movement, right side movement.
We have to now take into account
of your slippery environment.
So this is the probability
that you are getting to desired cell.
This is the probability of getting into a undesired cell
and this is the priority
of getting into a another undesired cell under the same
right hand side movement.
Okay? Yes, it slipped and uh, went back to that.
Yeah, because we are not changing action here.
Look at all the actions are given
pre-specified for this policy.
Policy says all state action sir. Right hand side action.
Given this policy in this environment,
we are computing the value for living in this state.
We are computing the value for living in this state like
that at the iation of one.
So this is the iteration number one.
Let me write this properly here now.
Now I give you the iation index here.
The iation index will common.
So now you're calculating the probabilistic method, right?
Non-deterministic, right? Ah, yes, right?
And the state of ACE
and the state of ace, your IT number is one that means
first time happening.
Then you take into account of this probabilities movement
of choosing your action.
This is the probability of movement.
This is called probability of choosing the action.
This is called under that action,
the probability of movement.
Multiply the reward. That is called immediate reward.
This reward stands for it is taking three argument,
current state action under the current
state, the next state.
So one step transition reward is accounted here.
Then gamma multiplied by you are getting into the
new state called ace desk.
At that point of time, your itemization value will be
reducing by one because you want to depend on the
value in the previous ation, okay?
So it is like you have started your game calculating your
value function for each
and every stand, each and every state.
So you have one time step remaining, okay?
As a result, you take one transition, you land into any one
of these future states.
When you have got into future state,
that state had some value in the previous.
So you are just reducing your iteration count by one.
It means that right now you have one time step left.
After taking action, you have zero times step left. Okay?
That is how we calculate.
So now if you plot the values, this is
0.5 multiplied by one plus zero,
plus this 0.3,
this 0.33 multiplied
by zero, this
is 0.16 multiplied
by zero.
So ultimate the value for remaining in this status is 0.5
right now, if you want to apply same formula
for the state number four here, that is what is the value
for renewability living in the state of four.
So here only the,
this ACE is getting changed to be four here.
The right side action,
action is coming from a previously defined policy itself.
So for four, this will become four here,
your next state will be from four.
It can be either five, it can be four, or it can be three.
So if you get into state of five,
what is the value available into the state of five at
zero, that value is zero.
So here this value will be zero,
and what is the reward for transitioning from four to five?
That reward is zero.
Here, it'll not be one because
whenever you are taking any condition
to any intermediate state, you don't get any reward.
Your reward is only applicable only when you
get into the gold state.
So this will be zero or at zero here.
So value for
it is V 1, 4 4 will be zero.
Similarly, V 1 43 will be zero like that it'll computed.
Okay, fine. So the IT one for IT two.
This formula will repeat again. So it'll become V two of A.
Here, it'll be V one of is.
So V one of is desk for everybody.
It is zero apart from V one of five.
So V one of five is 0.5.
For everyone else it is zero.
So when you take into account of this submission,
only when you calculate the value for this,
you get something positive here for the state
of four for V two.
Let me write here so that you get a proper picture.
What is the time now? Time is there.
Okay, so now I want to calculate for V two of four
my I detection index is two.
Okay? So your formalize is pie
of this A given A,
this submission is over action A.
Then you have
ace comma A given at the state
of ace you are taking action A.
This submission is what are the next possible states?
Then reward A.
A is dash plus gamma V.
One of is dash. Okay?
So this is one because we have a deterministic case.
So this will be
permission is dash.
What are the possibility?
It is
5, 4, 3.
These are the possible states
you take a transition is dash given S one K,
multiply this R plus gamma of B one of
is test to decouple them.
Probability of going into the state of five.
Given that you are in the state of four,
you are taking right hand side action.
What is the reward? Reward is zero
because intermediate state
five is a five is a intermediate state gamma multiplied by
V one of five.
This is the value is 0.5.
This plus next date is four.
Given that you have been in four,
you have taken right hand side action.
Intermediate state receive zero reward plus gamma multiplied
by V.
One of the next state is four.
This plus this is the value. Okay?
State next state is three.
Given you are in the state of four,
you have taken right hand side action.
Your next, your reward since three is intermediate state.
There is no reward GA multiplied
by V one F three.
Now you can calculate this.
This value is, this is a desired, uh, direction is right.
You have got into a desired direction.
That prob is 0.5
and five multiplied by gamma is 0.9
multiplied by 0.5
plus all these are zero.
This is zero, this is zero.
So zero multiplication, it'll turn out to be zero.
So this is what is a value.
So V two of four is this fine, you calculate it.
Tell me what is a value now V two
of three, V two of three maybe or three.
If you just write it down here, your next state sir,
four, three, and two.
Okay, so I'm just writing directly here.
So if you get into the state of four, given
that you have been in state of three,
taken a right hand side movement reward is zero
gamma multiplied by V one of four.
What is V one of four? V one of four is zero. Zero, okay.
In the address number one, only fifth state had value
of $0.50 zero.
So here, zero plus zero, it'll be of no use plus
demanding back in the same state.
The reward is going to be zero plus of gamma multiplied
by V one of three.
This is also cross valve. This is also a cross valve.
Next thing is same thing
and this will be changing out to be whatever.
Is there remaining poverty multiply by gamma
V one of two.
This is also, so this value turning out to G, okay?
Similarly, V two of two is going to be zero like that.
Now it three for the state of four,
it'll have further changes here.
V, v three of three, it'll have some positive development.
So actually value is rising as in YU
increase your ation count means
one episode is over.
Okay?
So is it fine for all of you to understand
Value you reducing it, sir?
Uh, because from 0.5 it goes down, right?
Which one? The value from
0.5 for this state.
Oh yeah, it's increasing. Sorry, go
Ahead. No, it it'll
increase. You can check it out.
No, no. Yeah, it's increasing sir.
Yeah, it is increasing. Look at uh,
V two of file.
You just check it out, it'll be increasing, okay?
It can never go down.
So as and when your, that means the episode goes on, each
and every state value is rising.
So this rising will be converging.
It'll not go on rise forever.
At some point of time, the value rising
is going to be saturating.
At that point of time, we can say under this policy,
we are not changing the policy.
Look at for all state, we are taking a
uh, action to be on the right hand side.
We are not changing the policy.
So now we can say after completing so many iteration,
The value function has now saturated.
So then we can say this policy is going
to give me this much value for this sale,
for this sale for for every sale.
I can say, what is the value?
This value says that if you start your game from this state,
let's say, uh, the value for the state
of three is saturating to be 0.25, okay?
The value for the state of four, it is saturating
to be let's say on 0.31.
So it means that if you start your game from the state
of three, only 0.25 probability
that you'll be landing into the goal
state, okay?
Because it is a slippery environment.
You start your game from state number three.
You take many number of episode out of all those episode
only one fourth of the time, only for one fourth
of the time episodes,
you'll be really landing into the goal state
for three fourth of the episodes.
They'll be taking you to some failure state like H.
That is a meaning of hello function.
After you compute your hello, I will show you the,
from the textbook,
they calculate the value.
I have not got into the frozen leg problem.
I will tell you that in the next class.
Now I'll show you what is the meaning of this al
and all, yeah, this is what I have computed.
I have computed for the policy of right hand side,
and this book has given you the same thing
for the left hand side movement, okay?
You can read by yourself,
you can do this calculation the same way.
So this is what is the,
if you are taking the left hand side movement,
reduce the zoom in,
you can see the PDF here.
So look at this case stands for iteration count, okay?
This is standing for the value of the state of zero.
This is standing for value of state of 1, 2, 3, like
that at iteration zero.
Everybody's initial is with zero at ation, one value of
in the state five is 0.16.
At ation two, the value is increasing.
0.22, 0.27 is the
value for the iteration two like that.
When the iteration is stopping, that means yous
value function has become saturated.
No more changes happening.
The last line, if you see
the meaning is given here, look at here.
This is the meaning, okay? What does it say?
A state of state
of which state it is?
State of one, okay?
State index is one a state index, one
0.027 is a probability
of reaching to the gold state.
That is state of this six.
If you start your game from the state of one
under this policy, when the policy gets match,
matured enough, I mean not policy,
the value function gets measured enough, only zero.
It means get only 0.27. Percentage of chance is there.
You are going to end up in the goal state when we have
started our game from the state of one, okay?
That is the meaning of value function.
So for each
and every state, the value is given here under which policy?
The policy is all left. This is the policy. All left policy.
Now, you might be having a question.
What is this PIE stands for?
This pie stands for denoting the policy.
Look at, this is the left policy pie.
Aramark is given the pie means it is a policy.
The currently, the example is chosen as the policy
of all left side movement for every intermediate state.
Okay? Under that, this is the way to calculate
you get this value for the iteration one,
then you compute apply same formation, two, three, go on
till the time there is no changes in the state value.
Okay? Do you have any question?
So you go
through this example in chapter three, page number 14.
Okay? It is given here page number 14.
So we have a deterministic policy.
So this part is one which part?
This pie part, pie part is one
because we have a deterministic
policy From the next class.
I'll show you the deterministic policy for the frozen lake.
After that, I will show you the stochastic policy for
this and for frozen leg.
Yeah, sure, sir. Okay.
So you might be having difficulty
to understand all this formula.
This one has not been taught to you.
This is called optimality.
Look at your optimality optimality.
I have not taught to you. It'll be taught
after two classes when I teach you this, how
to calculate the value function.
So this is the left hand side policy.
This is your after completion of your policy.
Uh, the value gets saturated to be the, like this,
there is something called Q function that I'll also tell you
the third, I mean from two day onward,
around third class, okay?
What is called Q function.
So only one thing is a fear factor.
That is whenever at what point
of time this expectation operator comes in.
If it comes in, then how should I calculate?
So do not get worried.
I will be helping you to walk through these examples
and I'll also show you the Python code
for doing this job.
Okay? So basically
what we have learned today that is given a policy
and given an environment,
how can I calculate the value
for living in a particular state?
Okay? Previous, this is what we have
for this example, I have not done this.
I'll do the next
class. Yes, yes.
The previous example, uh,
the book says it keeps going left, right?
The goal is going to six, right? Which is in the right.
Mm-hmm. But still, um, the values
we got, uh, is it again based on, um,
you know, uh, 0.5 versus 0.3 or 0.16?
No, no. Value will be changing. Value will be changing.
So you, you, you have asked a valid question
that is, I'm taking all left hand side movement here.
Yeah, My goal is to go to the state of six,
but I'm taking all left hand side movement.
Then how can I go to state number six, right?
Yeah. So at state one, yeah, at state one,
when you say the probability, some value, right? The values
That is yeah, 0.0027, that value is given here
And that that six, that says to go to goal six, is it or
Yeah. Okay.
Your end goal is to reach the six state
that is this state you want to reach.
What is the probability
that you'll be getting into this state?
If you start your game from here,
under all left hand side movement, that is 0.0027.
In the percentage it is, okay?
Just multiply the hundred 0.27% chances
that you are landing into gold state
because this is slippery environment, okay?
Suppose your float is slippery,
you are taking left hand side,
but still suppose it is your float is having a slope
of 30 degree,
30 degree towards your gold state, okay?
Okay. So natural inclination is there,
gravitation pool is there.
You can be going to the state of six,
but your action is going to the left hand side.
So even though you take action to go upward,
but your gravitation pool is pulling down
to the state number six,
Okay? Okay.
Okay.
Just use that, uh, uh, priority state of uh, uh,
0.16, when, when you calculated, you took 0.16
for going backward when you are
attempting to move right side. Ah,
Yes. Right, right, right.
It, it's taking that value all through, right?
Ah, yes. This is
that 0.0 5, 0 5 0 1 3 3 0 0.16.
Got it, sir? Thank you. You can do
by your own hand whatever I have done,
done in this stylist, right?
You do this exercise by your own hand.
This one page number 14,
the PDF is already shared to you, right?
Yes, thanks. Uh, no sir,
it is not there in LMSI have checked.
I think so not there.
No, sir. So chapter two, we have, uh, up to chapter two,
we have posted, sir,
The chapter two is there, chapter three is not
There. Chapter chapter three
is not there, sir. Okay.
Chapter three. I'll upload today. Yeah, I'll upload today.
Sure.
Ta ta uh, are there today's class?
Yes, sir. I'm, I'm only speaking, sir.
I see, right?
You uh, no sir, I'm there.
Uh, she's the LMS coordinator, sir.
She is not from our college. So
You are, Yes, sir. Yes sir.
Another TA was there, right?
Yeah. Neha Neha, sir,
she's not there today. I have attended today.
Okay, fine. So I'll, I don't have your mail.
I, I know the mail,
But, but Neha has shared the PDFs with me.
Okay. Uh, I will upload that chapter three today, sir. Yeah,
You upload chapter three, chapter 3, 4, 5 together,
you can upload if you have it
All, all the Okay, all the chapters.
I can upload all things, yes. Okay. Okay. No problem.
Okay, sir. Then I will do that.
Yeah. Shada, one more thing.
The Python file, which you have uploaded is coming ml,
so please find out how to upload last time.
I think they used to zip it or they used to send in,
otherwise, that file is totally,
those two Python files we cannot even download.
Okay. I'll check it In an email, but no response also.
Okay, I didn't get that, ma'am. I will just check Python
Notebook. Do one thing. Just
hold on. I will stop sharing.
I will share you right now itself in this,
in this chat window itself.
Okay? Where is the chat window? How to get it?
The below is an option called chat below bar chat.
I got it. Okay. Yeah,
so let me, um,
just give me a few second.
I'm downloading that from my Google collab
Actually. Uh, Ruby,
the easiest way is just whatever you get on the
next screen that the whole code, you just copy
and paste it in a notebook, uh, notepad
and, uh, save it as, uh, IP Y and B
and you'll get that, uh, Jupyter Notebook.
I did, I did. Okay. That doesn't work sometimes. Yeah,
No, because I, I just did, I just shared
that in our WhatsApp group also.
We can use that also in case it's better
To Zip the File and
upload.
Okay. Right now just check it out.
I have sent it out the environment file.
Check it out. Anyone just, is it opening or not?
Yeah, it's working, sir, and download it.
It's working, working. This is only the environment.
It doesn't have any value computation today.
The ID next class, I'll show you that file for that. Okay.
So for now, you can do by your own hand this calculation.
Sir, where is the file? Is it in this, uh, chart or, uh,
Chat, chat, chat.
This, uh, Python file I have sent you.
Okay. Okay, got it.
Let me send you the chapter three, this chat windows.
Okay, so chapter three has been sent out.
Thank you, sir. Sir, what is,
What is expected for the exam, sir?
Do we need to remember those formula
and integration is also needed, or it is,
Yeah, it is required.
Okay. If you do by your own hand, own hand, right,
you'll get very much familiarized.
It doesn't have much difficulty.
So some marine notes, uh, I am typing in words, sir. Hmm.
So in calculation I can still there also?
No, I'm not writing it.
I'm typing it from the chapter,
summarizing it and typing it.
Okay. So it is fine. No, sir. Do we need to write it?
Writing is better so that, I mean,
I will understand you have read it and
because typing sometimes you may copy and paste it.
Okay, sir? Yes, sure. Mm-hmm.
You write by your, because this course I'm telling
in very few institute, this course is floated up maybe one
or two years, this course will be floated up
by many in other institute.
Yes. So you do write, uh, write it by your own hand.
It'll give you a proper understanding and feeling.
Yeah, sure, sir. Thank you, sir.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Okay. Have a good day.
Yeah. Good day, sir. Thank you, sir. Hectic
Day for you.
Thank you, sir. Okay, thank you.